environments/local/README.md, before:

# Avalanche CMS Local Stack

## Introduction

Welcome to the Avalanche CMS local stack guide. This document outlines the steps to configure and run the stack, which includes PostgreSQL, pgAdmin, and Keycloak.

## Prerequisites

This setup is primarily designed for and tested on a Windows 11 development environment. However, thanks to the containerized approach and the technology stack used, it should also run seamlessly on Linux environments. Ensure the following software is installed:

- **Docker Desktop**: [Download Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) (For Windows 11)
- **Python 3**: [Download Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (Cross-platform)
- **Git Bash**: Recommended for executing scripts and Docker commands on Windows. [Download Git Bash](https://gitforwindows.org/). Linux users can use bash.

## Stack Components

The Avalanche CMS local development stack is based on Docker Compose and is composed of:

- **PostgreSQL Database (Version 16)**: Exposed on port 5432.
- **pgAdmin (Version 4)**: For database administration, accessible on port 5050.
- **Keycloak (Version 23 - Quarkus)**: Administration UI available on port 8080.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Generate Secrets

Start by generating necessary secret files for initial deployment (use `-a` for automatic generation of secrets):

```
python scripts/local/setup.py
```

### 2. Start the Stack

To initialize / start the Avalanche CMS stack, run:

```
docker compose up
```

- Optionally, add `-d` for detached mode.
- For log monitoring, run in a shell like Git Bash.

### 3. Access Services

- **pgAdmin**:
  - URL: [http://localhost:5050](http://localhost:5050/)
  - Username: `admin@avalanchecm.com`
  - Password: Found in *.secrets/pgadmin-admin-user-secret.env*
- **Keycloak Admin UI**:
  - URL: [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/)
  - Username: `admin`
  - Password: Found in *.secrets/keycloak-admin-user-secret.env*

### 4. Setting up pgAdmin

- On initial startup, pgAdmin requires manual database connection setup.
- Connection Details:
  - Username: `admin`, secret found in *.secrets/postgres-admin-user-secret*
  - Hostname: `postgres`
  - Port: `5432`

## Persistence

- PostgreSQL and pgAdmin data remain persistent across restarts, thanks to Docker volumes.
- Keycloak's data is persistent as well, utilizing PostgreSQL for storage.

Commit message:

Added pgAdmin predefined server list, so that the only thing the user needs to do is entering the postgres admin user secret. To streamline the dialog and make it informative, the postgres admin user has been renamed to postgres_admin, so that it is clear what is meant by the dialog presented by pgAdmin. Updated the README.md accordingly.

environments/local/README.md, after:

# Avalanche CMS Local Stack

## Introduction

Welcome to the Avalanche CMS local stack guide. This document outlines the steps to configure and run the stack, which includes PostgreSQL, pgAdmin, and Keycloak.

## Prerequisites

This setup is primarily designed for and tested on a Windows 11 development environment. However, thanks to the containerized approach and the technology stack used, it should also run seamlessly on Linux environments. Ensure the following software is installed:

- **Docker Desktop**: [Download Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) (For Windows 11)
- **Python 3**: [Download Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (Cross-platform)
- **Git Bash**: Recommended for executing scripts and Docker commands on Windows. [Download Git Bash](https://gitforwindows.org/). Linux users can use bash.

## Stack Components

The Avalanche CMS local development stack is based on Docker Compose and is composed of:

- **PostgreSQL Database (Version 16)**: Exposed on port 5432.
- **pgAdmin (Version 4)**: For database administration, accessible on port 5050.
- **Keycloak (Version 23 - Quarkus)**: Administration UI available on port 8080.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Generate Secrets

Start by generating necessary secret files for initial deployment (use `-a` for automatic generation of secrets):

```
python scripts/local/setup.py
```

### 2. Start the Stack

To initialize / start the Avalanche CMS stack, run:

```
docker compose up
```

- Optionally, add `-d` for detached mode.
- For log monitoring, run in a shell like Git Bash.

### 3. Access Services

- **pgAdmin**:
  - URL: [http://localhost:5050](http://localhost:5050/)
  - Username: `admin@avalanchecm.com`
  - Password: Found in *.secrets/pgadmin-admin-user-secret.env*
- **Keycloak Admin UI**:
  - URL: [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/)
  - Username: `admin`
  - Password: Found in *.secrets/keycloak-admin-user-secret.env*

### 4. Setting up pgAdmin

[pgAdmin](http://localhost:5050/) comes preconfigured with a server connection to the local PostgreSQL instance. For security reasons, the only thing you need to manually enter is the PostgreSQL admin user secret found in */.secrets/postgres-admin-user-secret.env*.

## Persistence

- PostgreSQL and pgAdmin data remain persistent across restarts, thanks to Docker volumes.
- Keycloak's data is persistent as well, utilizing PostgreSQL for storage.
